# Cluster Generator
Create automated SLURM installation scripts tailored to a cluster configuration.

## Description
A tool that streamlines the installation of Slurm, a popular job scheduling and workload management system, on cluster environments.

It will accomplish this by leveraging a cluster description file, which contains crucial information about the cluster's architecture and configuration.

## Compatibility
The installation scripts generated by this tool are designed to support a range of CentOS Linux versions, including CentOS 7, 8, and 9. This ensures flexibility and adaptability to various cluster environments running different CentOS releases.

### CentOS Versions Supported

- CentOS 7
- CentOS 8
- CentOS 9

Scripts have been tested on each of the above CentOS versions to ensure compatibility and smooth installation. However, it's essential to be aware of any CentOS-specific differences or updates that may affect your cluster configuration.

  

## Builder Host Dependencies

Cluster installation script generation process is designed to be versatile and compatible with Bash-compatible machines. This means you can easily generate installation scripts on a wide range of operating systems as long as they support Bash.

Software Dependency:
- Python

Python Package Dependencies:
- Jinja2

** If you plan to pre-build Slurm packages on a builder host for subsequent use on your cluster machines, it's essential to ensure that your host's operating system corresponds to that of the cluster machines.

## Quick Start
### Generate Instalation Package
To create an example installation package for run a script from repository:
`
./build.sh
`

### Distributing and Installing on Cluster Nodes
After the script has completed its execution, you will find the result in the `./build` directory.
This directory needs to be distributed across your cluster hosts.
To initiate the installation process on your cluster nodes, simply execute the following script on the intended target hosts, which can be your cluster nodes or controllers:
`
./build/scripts/install.sh
`

## Cluster Description File
Here's an example of a cluster describtion:
```JSON
{
  "Name" : "examplecluster",
  "SlurmVersion" : "20.11.9",
  "Nodes": [
    {
      "Name": "master",
      "CPUs": "7",
      "IP": "192.168.1.1",
      "Feature": "dcv2,other"
    },
    {
      "Name": "worker1",
      "IP": "192.168.1.2"
    },
    {
      "Name": "worker2",
      "CPUs": "16"
    }
  ],
  "Controller" : {
    "Name": "master",
    "IP": "192.168.1.1"
  }
}
```

* 'Name' : Cluster name
* 'SlurmVersion' : Target Slurm Version. Reffer to https://download.schedmd.com/slurm/ to see availible versions
* 'Nodes' : List of computation nodes. Each node is an object with its own properties, representing a nested structure.
    * 'Name' : Node host name
    * 'CPUs' : Number of CPUs for a node (optional)
    * 'IP': IP address of the node (optional). For network without DNS - mandatory
    * 'Feature' : A comma-delimited list of arbitrary strings indicative of some characteristic associated with the node [https://slurm.schedmd.com/slurm.conf.html] (optional)
* 'Controller' : Controller could be a computation node as well. Controller describtion:
    * 'Name' : Controller host name
    * 'IP': IP address of the controller (optional). For network without DNS - mandatory

## Contact
Artem - marisov.av@gmail.com

## Acknowledgments
* https://slurm.schedmd.com/quickstart_admin.html
* https://www.ni-sp.com/slurm-build-script-and-container-commercial-support/
* https://slurm.schedmd.com/slurm_ug_2011/Basic_Configuration_Usage.pdf
* https://slurm.schedmd.com/slurm.conf.html
